In addition to accessing individual elements from a list,
we can use Python slicing notation to access a subsequence of a list.
Slicing means using indices to slice off parts of an object like a string or a list.
An example makes it super clear.
Again, consider this list of months.
We can slice the third quarter of the year from the months' list like this.
The index to the left of the colon,
six, is where the slice begin.
The slice continues up to the second index, nine.
Notice that the six is the index of July,
but nine is the index of October.
The lower bound is inclusive but the upper bound is exclusive.
There are a couple of slicing shortcuts that simplify common situations.
If you would like to make a slice that begins at the very beginning of the original list,
you can omit the starting index like this.
Or, if you'd like to make a slice that ends at the very end of the original list,
you can omit the ending index like this.
List is a type just like string, float and int.
Of the types we've seen,
lists are more similar to string.
Both types support the LEN function, indexing and slicing.
Here, you can see that the length of the string is the number of
characters and the length of the list is a number of elements it holds.
Zero indexing is supported for both,
as well as slicing based on the indices shown here.
Another thing, they both support our membership operators, in and not.
In evaluate if the object on the left side is
included in the object on the right side and
not in evaluate if the object on
the left side is not included in the object on the right side.
Here, we can check if the string "her" is in this string, which is right here.
However, Sunday is not in our list as it only holds the month.